So now we have a running clock, we have
user inactivity, and we have the ability
to respond to a user saying feed or
change the weather or something like that.
So let's just start at our finite
state machine moving, right, and
get it in motion.
So the first thing I wanna do is I
wanna make a startGame function.
So we're gonna go back over to gameState.
And inside of it here doesn't really
matter what order these functions come in
I'm just gonna put a here in the middle.
I'm gonna make a function
called startGame, Okay.
And just to kind of reassure myself
that stuff is happening I'm gonna put
a console.log.
You can see I'm a big fan of console.log,
I use it quite a bit.
I'm gonna put ("Hatching"), And
I'm gonna say this.current =
"HATCHING", Right?
So I've moved my finite state machine
forward from INIT to HATCHING.
So now, this.current this one here
will now be equal to HATCHING.
And then, I'm going to define a time
that I'm going to wake up, so
I'm gonna say this.wakeTime = this.clock,
so the current time, +3, right?
You can define what you want this to be,
I'm gonna make it wait for
3 seconds, so it takes the fox
9 seconds to hatch, right?
And then I'll also have to
initialize that as well.
So I'm gonna put wakeTime and
I just put anything that's
not currently working as -1.
This is called a sentinel value that it
doesn't actually mean that the clock's
gonna do something at -1 it just means
if it's at -1 it's not currently active.
You could put this at undefined.
You could put whatever you want.
I tend to keep things in the same type,
and I think that's just a habit of writing
too much type script cuz type
script would yell at you otherwise.
All right, so that will start the game
whenever I call that function.
But we have to have a wake as well, so
whenever the hatching time comes
up we want it to wake, right?
So what we're gonna do is make a function
here I'm gonna put a console.log,
And we'll put awoken.
This.current will go from
hatching to idling, right?
To just standing by, so
we're gonna put this.current = "IDLING''.
And then we'll set this.wakeTime back to
-1 cuz it's no longer waiting to wake up.
If I call startGame
this will get it going.
I mean,
I could even go as far as to do this.
You don't have to follow this
I'm just gonna show you.
window.gameState = gameState.
And now if I come back over here,
I can actually say gameState.startGame and
call it you can see here
it says hatching and
then after a few amount of
ticks it'll say awoken.
It actually won't do that because we
haven't actually made that work yet
but it would if there was
anything watching for that time.
So we're gonna have to go
put that into tick, right?
Because tick to has to track these times.
Before we go do that let's go make
the handleUserAction work first.
I think that's a better thing to do first.
So inside of handleUserAction,
we already know this console or
this works it's getting the correct icon
so I'm just gonna delete the console.log.
And I'm gonna say the first thing,
like one of our rules is that if the fox
is sleeping, feeding, celebrating or
hatching it can't do anything
which means that you do not respond
to user input during those times.
So I'm gonna say if it's ([ "SLEEP",
"FEEDING",
"CELEBRATING", Or
"HATCHING" ], And you say,
includes (this.current) which
is another way of saying if
this.current is inside of this array
that'll be true if it's asleep,
feeding, celebrating, or
hatching, then // do nothing,
and you just return, Okay?
So that's our first order of business,
do nothing in these particular states.
When do we start the game?
If the user presses the middle button
w/hen do we actually call startGame?
So we're gonna say, And
we can use the same trick actually,
you can do it either one of two ways,
my notes have it this way.
You could do it this way where you
say this array includes blah, or
you can say if (this.current === "INIT".
Or you can restart the game if the fox
is dead, so this.current === "DEAD".
If either one of those is true then
you're gonna say this.startGame,
And then you return because at
that point you're done, okay?
And then next, Last thing we're
gonna do is we're gonna put switch,
we're gonna use a switch statement
based on which icon they clicked.
So in case "weather" you're gonna call
a function called this.changeWeather,
Which we'll make in a second and
then break.
Case, poop,
Then we're gonna say this.cleanupPoop.
Break.
In case "fish",
Call this.feed and then break.
Okay, so this is just kind of
saying if icon is equal, and
icon refers to this icon right,
the one that's passed into the function.
If it's weather,
then call the changeWeather function.
If it's poop,
call the cleanupPoop function.
If it's fish then call the feed function.
And we're gonna go just
make placeholders for that.
So changeWeather,
I'm just gonna make a console.log.
ChangeWeather.
For cleanup poop,
console.log ("cleanUpPoop").
And last one feed,
Is console.log ("feed").
And I need to comma there.
There we go.
Okay, so the one thing that we did
accomplish in this particular case,
If you click the middle button now
you should get, this is undefined.
That's true and
we do still have a problem with this.
What is that?
Well, if we come back over
here to our function.
When I call this.startGame what is this?
What is this right here?
Well, you would hope it would be gameState
that's what your intention of that is.
But it turns out that's actually
not the case right now.
Why?
Where is it actually being called?
If you go over to buttons.js it's being
called here handleUserAction which
is being called from here.
And this is going to be, it's probably
a window if I had to take my guess.
We can take a look.
So if I say console.log this
right here and I refresh, and
I click, it's just undefined so
it's not even that.
And that's because it's invoking that
from the browser it's not invoking it
from the context of gameState.
So how do we handle this?
We can use something called bind.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna
say export default handleUserAction or
not default rather export
const handleUserAction =
handleUserAction.bind (gameState).
So what is this?
Now we have a named export here called
handleUserAction and we've pulled out
handleUserAction and we've bound,
this is a something built into JavaScript,
we've bound gameState to be this no
matter what, no matter where it's called.
If you've watched my previous
versions of the React training,
we have to handle this as well in React,
it's pretty common.
So this is just binding the context of
handleUserAction to always be this,
to always be gameState.
Now we have to go back over to,
INIT.js and
here next to game we're gonna also
pull out handleUserAction like this.
And we're just going to
pass in handleUserAction
instead of gain.handleUserAction, right?
And now this is going to be the bound
version of handleUserAction and
that's what's gonna be
passed into INIT buttons.
Okay, so now, Can't access lexical
declaration, handleUserAction.
It's actually going to be = export const
handleUserAction game.handleUserAction,
gameState, gameState.handleUserAction,
Right?
Because it's actually on
gameState right there.
So gameState.handleUserAction.
So game state.handleUserAction.bind
(gameState) and
you're exporting that which you're
then passing over to buttons.js
that's importing or
it's actually rather it's INIT.
This here is now a bound handleUserAction
which is then being passed into an INIT
buttons, which is here in buttons,
which is this function here.
And that's only being called when
the user clicks the middle button.
Now, if I click this,
you can see it goes to hatching which so
it's calling that INIT game.